# Identifying Key Aspects to Enhance Predictive Modeling for Early Identification of Schistosomiasis Hotspots to Guide Mass Drug Administration
 
This Github page provides code for reproducing the results in the manuscript: ``Identifying Key Aspects to Enhance Predictive Modeling for Early Identification of Schistosomiasis Hotspots to Guide Mass Drug Administration'' by Y. Chen, F. Luo, L. Martinez, S., Jiang, and Y. Shen.

## Summary
Schistosomiasis infection is a major public health problem. The related study shows that mass drug administration (MDA), a widely used method for achieving the preventive chemotherapy with praziquantel (PZQ), does not prevent reinfection and the formation of high-risk areas (i.e., hotspots) between MDA rounds. Especially in endemic regions, multiple rounds of MDA are typically required for the elimination of schistosomiasis. The aim of this study is to develop prediction methods for the first round to identify hotspots (i.e., early identification) and guide subsequent MDA. Accurate and early identification of hotspots, however, faces challenges due to a lack of sufficient infection data. Furthermore, the proportion of hotspots to non-hotspots is often severely imbalanced, making it even more difficult to extract useful information from the available infection data in the baseline year to identify these hotspots. To overcome these challenges, we collect secondary data from public sources and develop statistical and machine learning prediction methods. Our method supports MDA efforts, contributes to the elimination of schistosomiasis, and improves public health.
